Hello everyone and welcome back.
Before we get to this final challenge I do want to show you one quick tip that will drastically increase
your speed of productivity.
Now I've been thinking about this and some things it works on and some it doesn't it will work on our
particular scene in front of us now but it might not work with other ones.
I'll show you both cases.
I can duplicate the letter because I'm happy with it.
I'm now on frame 2 I'm going to hide.
Frame one from existence.
I'm just going to hold to these flames ever so slightly so we've got a bit of basically two frames to
go between and I'll do the candle as well.
Just make it shift over slightly there.
Now if we go and just check this we can literally fake the animation by switching between the two legs.
There we go.
That's changing backwards and forwards.
Now there's an option in under the filters under the animation section to use blend.
And I think this is going to work really well in this instance.
Now blend enables you to add far more frames in between everything else.
So intermediate frames I could go here and put maybe four in it's going to start literally in between
these two frames.
Put another four in.
And I'm going to select Loopt as well and that will help blend the last frame with the first frame.
So it will loop around in a circle and we go ahead and click okay blend animation Elise Lees in these
three sources so we can't do it with what we've got in front of us.
Here we go to need.
Three layers three layer groups certainly.
So I'm going to enable that one so I can see what that looks like.
Go to the flame and do a couple more alterations.
Again these are only rough and ready to see what we can get out of this.
And there we go.
So that should be plenty for this to go on.
We can now go to our filters animation and blend an intermediate frames.
This is going to create by the way a new image which is great.
It means it's not going to destroy what you've got.
You can see with those three it's managed to stick frames in between.
Now what has it actually done.
Well if we have a look at the original one and go back to animation and playback we will see that.
Well unfortunately it's a little hard to see.
So what I will do here and I encourage you to do this as well certainly save your work before you do
it and then go to view.
Sorry go to impeach scale image.
Make sure interpellation is turned off and you can turn this up to a sensible size.
Now you may get air a memory error when you try and do this.
I didn't.
That's good.
So now it's a little larger when we go to.
Filter's animation and play back.
It's a little bit easier to see.
So here's our original one you can see it's quite jerky and of course it's only three frames so I'm
not expecting it to be super smooth.
However with very little work this extra one that we've done that we're also going to have to scale
up to the same size for comparison.
Now if we go ahead and get animation and play back on this hopefully it will look a lot smoother and
we can see there because we've got a lot more frames.
It's blending between them and it's also as I say smoother but this does mean we can then increase the
playback speed accordingly because we've got more frames to play with.
And since we got about three times the amount of frames that's play three times the speed now there's
really not enough information in those three frames to make a decent blend.
But you can see how this can be built upon to extend your existing animation and make it potentially
better.
The other thing that I will show you at this point is where it does fail.
So if I go ahead and open up something I've worked on previously that bouncing ball would be a good
example.
Here we go.
Now I've got a series of frames here I've got 20 frames in total if I go ahead and just apply that filter
under animation blend to here.
It doesn't matter whether it's looped or not.
I'm going to turn that off for this moment because I don't want it looping.
It goes from the top it bounces down and then lands on the floor.
Intermediate frames even at one intermediate frame I don't want to slow it down too much.
We get an interesting effect happen let's go to animation and playback.
You'll see that's the first frame flickers Now that of course can cause you some issues especially with
an animation like this.
Otherwise the rest of the animation is quite good because now we can turn it up to maybe 20 frames per
second and have a smoother image.
Now is not ideal because you're still not having an in-between in between the other frames it's literally
blurring between them and we can see that as we go through the image themselves you can see you've got
some that are blurred and they're not.
And then they are in then they're not.
So just give us a bit of a a motion blur to something moving.
However your mileage may vary depending on what you're producing and what your end animation is going
to be.
With that in mind there is not going to be a challenge with this one because I want to get you straight
in to the end of section challenge and I will see you in the next lecture.